>> Lucas: Let's jump in and
solve this challenge.
We're basically creating
a status component.
So first thing's first.
>> Lucas: How do I wanna do this?
Do this from the command line so
ng g C Status.
I'm just gonna put it,
we're not nesting it or anything.
Then we'll do /m and it's app.module.ts.
>> Lucas: So component is created.
Let's hop into our code, and
let's go into our home component.
So we're operating under
the assumption that
the status component is
been added to our module.
So the next thing is that once
you generate it from the CLI,
it's ready to go.
So in our home component
>> Lucas: home.component.html
>> Lucas: I'll just go ahead and
add this so,
believe it's gonna be app-status.
>> Lucas: And
let's see if this renders.
>> Lucas: Status works.
Okay so that is,
I think even with commentary that
took me like three minutes or less.
So getting components up and running and
in your application, very, very easy.
So now let's go ahead and
do the property binding.
So we're sending something from
the parent into the child.
So when you're doing an input or
when you're doing inputs and
outputs, those are defined
at the child component.
So the child component is saying,
this is what I'll accept in and
this is what I'm going to communicate out.
So we'll go input, and remember this
is a function you have to call it or
you'll run into problems.
And we'll just go currentStatus.
>> Lucas: Okay,
so now that we've created this input,
we now have a property that we can
bind to on the parent component.
So if we go over to the home component,
>> Lucas: You'll notice,
hopefully, WebStorm picks this up,
currentStatus.
This is, whew, and I'm just gonna put
something here, we'll just say myStatus.
This doesn't exist yet, but
this is what we wanna populate it with.
So let's go back to home.component.ts and
let's go myStatus and we'll just say
active.
>> Lucas: Okay,
so now we've set it on
the parent component and
we are passing it to the child component,
the others property.
So they're basically binding
on the same property.
So if we then go to status components,
let's actually
go status component.html.
>> Lucas: We'll
go h1,
>> Lucas: My Status
>> Lucas: currentStatus.
And so now we're saying,
when this comes in,
go ahead render it in the child template.
So if we go back here,
the current status is active.
Let's take this one step further just so
we can show you that when it changes
on the parent, it changes in the child.
So I'm going to borrow an element.
>> Lucas: From this form over here.
Let's hop back into the home component.
>> Lucas: And
for this will go in g model.
Now one thing I need to
do is double bind this,
>> Lucas: Go ahead and
set a placeholder here and
what I'll do as well,
let me just kinda start to break this out,
just cuz we only have so much space.
So we are going to bind this
input using two way data binding
to myStatus.
So whenever my status changes,
it's going to change here.
And therefore, it'll effect currentStatus
in the child component if all
goes well.
>> Lucas: So
you can see this is, because it's two-way,
it's already pre-populated.
So we're sending this property
from the class into the template.
But because we're event binding,
when I type in here,
you can see that it's basically
raising that event and saying, hey,
the template was updated for component
class, you need to update yourself.
So you can chang this to whatever.
So this is input binding, so
as we change it on the parent,
it changes on the child.
>> Lucas: And
what's nice about this is
that if we go back to our
status component, no logic,
just pulling it in and
just automatically rendering
it in to the template.
Now let's go here and
let's create an output.
So we wanna have some event within
the component that is going to
indicate the parent that we need to
change the status to something else.
So let's go output.
This is also method and
we'll just call this logout.
Now this is
>> Lucas: An EventEmitter
>> Lucas: And what's funny is,
this is actually inspired
by the node EventEmitter,
well this is why you
get a few options here.
We're gonna go with one from angular core.
>> Lucas: And so
now, if you go back to the home component,
>> Lucas: That's not the home component,
this is the home component.
And you can imagine that there's
going to be a logout event.
Well, thank you WebStorm.
Log out and then from here,
we'll go into define my event handler.
And obviously, it's saying,
hey, this doesn't exist.
So we'll go ahead and
define this and so we'll say,
log out.
>> Lucas: Just
take the event even though i
don't really care about it.
And we'll go this,
my status equals LOGGED OUT.
>> Lucas: Now we're almost there.
We got one more piece.
We need to actually fire it
from the child component.
So going back to here,
I'm just going to steal
this button, rather steal this button into
our template.
>> Lucas: Just
like the horizontal rule everything,
and from here,
>> Lucas: Logout.emit and we'll just send
the event.
>> Lucas: Even
though we don't really need it,
we can over here.
So hopefully this renders, boom.
And notice, so now from the child,
we were saying this event was clicked,
parent you handle it,
you decide what to do.
So this is very common,
a lot of times I have a three year old and
a six year old,
my three year old would come to me and
he'll just have something
that is totally broken.
He's just like, what do I do?
This happened, what do I do?
As the parent, I'm responsible for
them exercising sound judgement and
making the right decision.
And so,
this is very much of a child saying,
I don't know what to do,
you handle it, you're the parent.
And from here, again just going back,
what I love about this and
I keep saying this over and over, is that
>> Lucas: This
component
>> Lucas: There's not really any
moving parts.
And so, if it is actually
a presentational component or
a dumb component, I'll even parse
it down and just take out on init,
just to say that this is just binding,
this is all we're using.